---
layout: post
title: Phishing repeat clicker research
subtitle: How to build resiliency?
cover-img: /assets/img/phishing.webp
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/phishing.webp
share-img: /assets/img/phishing.webp
tags: [Cybersecurity, Phishing]
author: MALI
---



# Introduction

For no reason whatsoever, I am doing some research into whether there is anything in the literature that has been done to address phishing and repeat clickers. I am not going to use any AI to write this because there's gonna be some weird neek on the internet going 🤓 "this was probably written by AI I don't need to read this". The issue I have with blog posts made by cyber security companies is that they don't provide any reference as to who wrote the blog, where they got their ideas from and what is the effectiveness of their approach. Just because you are a cyber security company doesn't mean you can give cyber security advice without providing references and evidence to your claims. One thing about this page is that there's one guy who is writing all the papers on repeat clickers so this might impose underlying bias and also he referneces his own papers a ton but the guy seems chill.



# Literature Review 

(Canham,2023) did a study on repeat clickers and protective stewards and told them to remember a code word at the beginning of the study that they would need to recall at the end. He found that all repeat clickers failed to remember the identifier whereas the protective stewards all remembered. At the end the researcher states "the inability to recall code words by repeat clickers combined with an inability to recall simulated phishing failures and rigid email habits are suggestive of an underlying common cognitive factor at play with repeat clickers. A potential reason that repeat clickers have more rigid habits is that they are compensating for a cognitive deficiency that is also contributing to less effective recall".The researcher also claims from previous work that "repeat clickers present nearly three times more risk to an organisations social engineering attack exposure than occasional clickers". The researcher gathered volunteers of repeat clickers and protective stewards and asked them to fill out an online survery to assess their anxiety in using the internet, detecting phishing emails and whether they have been victims of online fraud. They then did interviews which were on techniue and strategies, actions in response to a suspicious email, percieved technological prowess, phishing simulations and workload email habits. The researcher discovered that repeat clickers tend to hanve higher internet anxiety, higher locus of control and lower technical prowess. Both groups also had a similar level of workload and felt they were overworked. However, the researcher in this study references their previous work many times thus causing the potential of bias. The sample size of the group was also extrememly small (6) which is not reflective of a larger population.

(Schiller et al, 2024) did a quantitative study on 757 employees and qualitative study with 22 participants. This is significant because it has higher population validity as well as represents medium to large enterprises. However, people may not be truthful in surveys and I forgot what the term is for it. The company analysed in their reserach was a "multinational manufacturing company" which represents good ecological validity. In their literature review, they mention that phishing simulations are heavily debated about. The research suggests that the efficacy of phishing simulations only has "short term reduction in the click-through rate which disappears after a while or even found no effect at all". Another researcher states that "the perception that they are being attacked by their own organisation while working to deliver its productivity goals can have a negative impact on staff trust in the organisation". There is also the potential for things to go wrong in a phishing simulation i.e faking bonuses to staff. Their survey results show that the "majority of people who clicked on phishing links wanted to handle it quickly". They also responded that they "were stressed, under time pressure or unconcentrated". This suggests time scarcity is a big driver for how likely someone is suceptible to a phishing email. They also found that only 34.1% of participants rembered the education page shown after clicking on a link. While some people found it useful, others were anoyed because they already knew the content.However, 87% of the participants had a positive attitide to the phishing simulation where one participant said "this makes you aware of the issue and you get used to checking e-mails for phishing and reacting accordingly". However, another participant wrote "At some point, too much simulation is no longer taken seriously. Do you know the story of the shepherd boy and the wolf (flase alarm)". The researcher found that having an [External flag] is also something employees found helpful when identifying phishing. Another thing they discovered was that participants were unsure of what to do when they recieved a phishing simulation. This could possibly suggest that regular education on how to report phishing could increase the resiliency of an organisation. They also found that participants preferred simulations over e-learning. Towards the end of the paper, the researchers state that phishing simulations may cause a false sense of security and this may have caused employees to not interact with educational material. 

(Canham et al, 2019) acknowledge that repeat clickers represent a very small subset of an organisation ~ 0.83%. The researchers suggest while some people in the Cyber Security advocate harsher punishments for repeat clickers, other research by (Caputo et al, 2014) show that repeat clickers "feel anger towards themselves for falling victim to phishing emails". (Canham et al, 2019) also suggest that narcissism increases the likeliness that someone is susceptible to a phishing attack and in their paper provides two references showing the correlation between self reported narcicism and phishing vulnerability. 

(Canham, Dawkins and Jacobs, 2024) in partnership with NIST also wrote a paper investigating differential phishing susceptibility. The first point they mention is locus of control which is how much a person feels they can control their own fate. The second point they mention is "a need for cognition" which describes someones "need to question and evaluate the information they they are being provided in relation to a message". The third point they mention is the big 5 personality traits also mentioned in (Canham et al, 2021) which is openness, conscientiousness, extraversion, agreeableness and neuroticism. Finally they also suggest that previous victims of online scams may play a role in repeat clicking behaviour. 

(Blyth et al, 2020) in partnership with NIST published a report on phishing and discovered how organisations delt with repeat clickers.The table below shows organisations responses.

| Action                                                        | Yes (%) | No (%) | Don’t know (%) |
|---------------------------------------------------------------|---------|--------|-----------------|
| **Sanctions**                                                 |         |        |                 |
| Decreased an employees’ privileged access                     | 32      | 46     | 22              |
| Locked employees' workstation until security awareness training complete | 17      | 73     | 10              |
| Issued an employee with a disciplinary warning                | 42      | 39     | 20              |
| Required an employee to attend an in-person security awareness workshop | 39      | 49     | 12              |
| Had 1:1 with employees who have failed security awareness assessments | 49      | 37     | 15              |
| Named and shamed an employee for risky behaviour              | 15      | 78     | 7               |
| Required employee to sit eLearning following assessment results | 51      | 42     | 7               |
| Informed employees line manager of risky behaviour            | 61      | 25     | 15              |
| **Rewards**                                                   |         |        |                 |
| Certificates of completion                                    | 63      | 25     | 12              |
| Given gifts to employees                                      | 49      | 42     | 7               |
| Publicly recognized an employee as a security advocate        | 66      | 27     | 7               |



# References

Canham, M. (2023). Repeat Clicking: A Lack of Awareness is Not the Problem. In: Degen, H., Ntoa, S., Moallem, A. (eds) HCI International 2023 – Late Breaking Papers. HCII 2023. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol 14059. Springer, Cham. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-48057-7_20


Caputo, Deanna D., Shari Lawrence, Pfleeger, Jesse D., Freeman, M. Eric, Johnson. "Going Spear Phishing: Exploring Embedded Training and Awareness". IEEE Security & Privacy 12. 1(2014): 28-38.

Canham, M., Dawkins, S. and Jacobs, J. (2024) 'Not all victims are created equal: Investigating differential phishing susceptibility,' in Lecture notes in computer science, pp. 3–21. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-61569-6_1.

Schiller, K. et al. (2024) 'Employees’ Attitudes towards Phishing Simulations: ‘It’s like when a child reaches onto the hot hob,’' ACM, pp. 4167–4181. https://doi.org/10.1145/3658644.3690212.

https://www.usenix.org/sites/default/files/soups2019posters-canham.pdf

https://osf.io/preprints/psyarxiv/36eqn_v1

https://www.researchgate.net/publication/357046390_Phishing_in_Organizations_Findings_from_a_Large-Scale_and_Long-Term_Study

https://www.researchgate.net/publication/383700878_Content_Nudges_and_Incentives_A_Study_on_the_Effectiveness_and_Perception_of_Embedded_Phishing_Training

https://www.researchgate.net/publication/371138402_PREPRINT_We_have_Phishing_at_Home_Quantitative_Study_on_Email_Phishing_Susceptibility_in_Private_Contexts

https://www.researchgate.net/publication/376268197_Which_factors_predict_susceptibility_to_phishing_An_empirical_study

https://www.researchgate.net/publication/348956931_Phishing_for_Long_Tails_Examining_Organizational_Repeat_Clickers_and_Protective_Stewards

https://www.nist.gov/publications/not-all-victims-are-created-equal-investigating-differential-phishing-susceptibility

https://arxiv.org/pdf/2112.07498
https://www.computer.org/csdl/proceedings-article/sp/2022/131600b199/1FlQL20L5AI

https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/full/10.1177/2158244021990656

https://www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity19/presentation/van-der-heijden

https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3658644.3690212