---
layout: post
title: Mo Sleep protocol 
subtitle: This is more of a guide but protocol sounds cooler
cover-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/maxresdefault.jpg
share-img: /assets/img/maxresdefault.jpg
tags: [wellness, health]
author: MALI
---

# How I fix my sleep cycle
Welcome to todays blog post. Todays blog will be focused around sleep, meditation, mental health.

## why is sleep important?
Sleep is important for hormones, cancer risk reduction, healing, cognitive performance and other metrics. Unfortunately due to work and procrastination, a lot of us struggle to sleep enough. One reason is due to work. Some people especially in finance work Monday to Friday 8am - 8pm and then need to somehow manage spending time doing other things i.e eating and spending time with loved ones. This part I cannot write about and I would be rude to give suggestions for something I've never lived through. I also cannot talk about things such as medical issues that prevent people from sleeping because I don't have any either.

Another reason is because people tend to delay their sleep past midnight or like me have a mild case of insomnia where some nights sleep is impossible to attain. This is a lot more common because we like to do things like playing games, nights out and spending time with friends and family at night time. 

## How to fix sleep schedule

### Night 
Try not to exercise at night as this can disrupt sleep in some individuals. It's worth sleeping earlier and working out in the mornings or afternoon because that way you can get your workout in and also be sufficiently tired enough to go to bed.

10-30 minutes before sunset go on a walk and come back home 10-30 minutes after sunset. This is so your brain realises it's approaching night time and to start doing whatever it needs to do for sleep to begin. 

Try to not eat right before bed. This is so your body is not intensely digesting food while you are trying to sleep. Also taper off how much water you drink if you're someone who wakes up in the middle of the night to pee.

Put a blue light filter on your computer and phone. Ideally you don't use them 2 hours before bed but who is doing that lol. I use Flux and I set my monitor to 1200k so my screen is practically orange. After a while you don't realise it's there. 

Wear earplugs if there is sound coming from outside and wear a watch that vibrates you awake as your alarm. 

Try go to bed at the same time everyday. This is so your body gets used to sleeping at a certain time and it will make it a lot easier to fall asleep. When you stay up late you have a cortisol release that makes you feel alert and it will actually affect your next days sleep as well. 

Finally, try some sort of meditation in bed. People give a fancy meaning to meditation but what it really means is just focusing on one thing i.e a mantra, counting, focusing on breath etc etc. I like to do Wim Hof breathing because I find it helps me recover better from the gym and running. 

### Morning 

Make sure to wake up ~ the same time everyday. This is often the easiest part for people because of work and school. After you wake up make sure you don't get back in bed. If you struggle getting out of bed in the morning because it's cold, try rapidly getting out of bed so the cold shock is masked by an addrenaline rush. Also put on some clothes.

Drink some water and drink coffee whenever. Some people say wait. I'm impatient so I don't wait for my morning coffee. 

Get some sunlight by going outside or opening your window and sticking your head out. Sunlight from window is not enough. 

If you're trying to fix your sleep schedule, eat a ton of high volume low calorie foods like apples, bannanas, cucumber, eggs and maybe a protein shake if you need protein. 

## Afternoon
Try to go outside during lunch time or stick your head out of a window again. 

Drink decaf coffee or none at all. If you're weaning off your caffeine addiction have less and less coffee everyday until it's just decaf. 

Have a lunch with a good amount of protein and fats to keep you satiated. I like to save my carbohydrates for dinner time so I can eat more.  

Do something that is cognitively difficult. This is so your brain is also tired before going to bed. 

## Late Afternoon 5-8pm
Go to the gym or do some sort of exercise. If it's a rest day try walking or running
Eat dinner ideally at like 7-8pm. 

Start switching lights off that aren't necessary. i.e I replace my kitchen lights with candles that I get on sale from Asda because I'm cheap.

If you take melatonin take it like an hour / 1.5 hours before bed. I personally don't take melatonin.

Do some stretching. This is the time I do my plantar fascitis protocol 

Call or text a loved one or a friend 

